## The usefulness of tools

A programming language is tool used to create. Some tools are difficult to use, some are expressive and some are designed for learning. While I believe most of the design principals presented in the 3 readings cover most of what a good programming language is, they all over look the aspect of usefulness. Some children may be interested in a programming language because it is easy to learn and provides them with an introduction to programming, I believe the utility of a programming language supersedes many of the other principals. Sacrificing the usefulness of a tool in favor of ease of use or simplicity limits the impart of that tool for beginners. I have seen a 11 year old kid learn c++ from a textbook so they did not have to manually calculate answer on their math homework. I think that most would agree that c++ is not a learnable programming language however, it was effective in teaching this child programming not because it was easy to learn but because they were motivated to accomplish a goal with it. Making a language more learnable will make the process easier but we should not underestimate the capacity of children to learn and avoid the creation of "toy" languages. Finally one criticism on the paper by Bret Victor. The addition of readable syntax, immediate visualization, "dumping the part" and exposing flow and hidden state can all be great additions to a programming language but the training wheels should not interfere with progression in the language otherwise it will limit the students learning.